---
layout: post
title:  "Thinking about Programming Camp"
date:   2015-10-15 10:07:48 +0000
categories: deciding_programming_camp
---
My background:  I am not new to programming, but I wouldn't say that I am an expert.  My first programming language was Fortran; I took Fortran classes in college a long time ago, and I did some programming for my graduate work.  For my first job, I worked for a company which supplied software for automotive companies.  I mainly used an in-house C-like language for that job.  Then I got a job at a big automotive company which used my previous company's software.  My main job was to customize the software and support internal engineers.  I used Python, Perl, Fortran, and C.  Though I used several programming language, I never thought I was an expert in programming; I just had enough knowledge to get things done.  Even though I don't consider myself an expert, I loved and still love programming. I loved the feeling when I solved something even if it was something small.  

Five years ago, I decided to take time off from work for family reasons.  This year (2015), my family and I moved from Michigan to Reno, Nevada and I decided to go back to work.  Since there are no automotive jobs here, it's hard for me to find a job.  I also felt I wasn't skilled enough to apply for a software engineering job.  I sent my resume to several places over five months but I didn't get any responses from the companies I applied to. 

First time I decided to enroll in a programming camp was around September.  I didn't know anything about being a web developer but when I read about it, I realized that web industries are much more complicated than they were ten or fifteen years ago, and there seemed to be lots of demand for developers.  I had never heard of “full-stack” or “back end” web developers before, but when I read about them, they sounded very interesting.  I'm not very convinced that going through programming camp could guarantee a job.  However, I thought the programming camp could help me finish some web apps and help me create a good portfolio.  I thought it would give me more insight into the web developing industry, and perhaps give me some connections.  If anything, I thought it might lead me in the right direction.  
  
Once I decided to enroll in a camp, it was very hard to decide which one to enroll in.  I found that many camps are expensive (some of them cost $17,000 ~ $18,000) and only offer the camp on-site.  On-site camps may be fun, but the problem for me was that there was nothing local and I couldn't afford paying for somewhere to stay during 3-4 months of camp.  However, I did find several online camps, and I was especially attracted by one of the camps that no tuition.  Instead, the camp asked for 18% of the student's first year's salary.  I was almost ready to sign up for the program.  
