---
layout: post
title:  "Sign up for Introductory Course"
date:   2015-10-20 18:07:48 +0000
categories: introductory_course
---
As I wrote earlier, I was going to sign up for a camp which offered students no tuition, just 18% of their first year's salary, but then I discovered another camp called the Firehose Project.  The tuition of the Firehose Project is $4,000.  $4,000 (if paying upfront, $4,500 for installment option) is still high since I don't have a job, but it is much more affordable than other camps.  I also liked the mentorship idea of the Firehose Project.  So, after much thought, I decided to sign up for the Firehose Project.  Actually, I hadn't officially signed up yet.  They had a free pre-work course I could go through, and I could decide if I wanted to sign up for the camp or not after the pre-work.  They need any credit information for their pre-work.  They just needed my email address.  

The pre-work, technically called the "Introductory course", included video lessons for building a simple static webpage, and also included written lessons for beginning Ruby programming.  Since I knew some of HTML/CSS and also started learning Ruby before I signed up, I didn't have any trouble during introductory course.  I finished all of the tasks in 2 days.  Building a website was very satisfying, even though the website was really simple.  

I sent email to Marco, one of the founders of the program, and asked about the flexibility on this programming camp.  Their website said that students would be doing 3 core projects, learning algorithms & TDD, and 1 group project if they are a job seeker.  Since I was unemployed and had lots of time, I was planning to do more than what they offered.  Marco replied to me very quickly and answered my questions.  He said that, yes, I could go beyond the core curriculum and build additional apps with my mentor.  That was the answer I was looking for.  I might struggle with the core curriculum and may not have the time to do the extra work but it was nice to know that I could do extra projects if I had the time.   After I received the email from Marco, I signed up immediately.  Instead of starting the following Monday, I decided to start on the Monday after that since I wanted to spend some time studying Ruby and Ruby on Rails before I started.  The following week, I studied Ruby programming through the Codecademy Ruby track and Ruby Monk site.  I also went through several chapters of the “Ruby on Rails tutorial” (by Michael Hartl) and I tried to understand what Ruby on Rails is about.  I was really looking forward to starting a programming camp and was dreaming about some web apps I could be making in the near future.   