---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3 Part 1"
date:   2015-11-23 10:07:48 +0000
categories: week_3
---
A couple of hours before my second meeting with a mentor, I started writing my image_blur2 code which was another program which used a 2-dimensional array.  I finished about 80% of it before the meeting.  Since I was used to dealing with 2-D and 3-D arrays at my previous job, this concept was not foreign to me.  I mean, unless I misunderstood the whole problem, I was confident that I was able to solve the problems without any help.  Before my second meeting with my mentor, I sent him the list of the things I wanted to discuss about, and I thought that the meeting was very productive.  I really want to take full advantage of each meeting with my mentor, so preparation for the meeting is very crucial to me.  One of the major reasons I chose the Firehose Project was that I have the opportunity to have a weekly one-on-one meeting with a mentor who is an expert in the field.  I am looking forward to each meeting because that is when I can ask about anything that I can't find the answer to in any book or website.  

I finished image_blur2 on the following day and also finished image_blur3 on the same day.  My logic must be working as I only needed to tweak a few lines to make the code for image_blur2 to work for image_blur3.  I looked forward to talking about this to my mentor, because I assumed there were lots of different ways to solve this problem.  Creating a web site is interesting but I really love doing Ruby programming and solving algorithms like this, because it is like solving a puzzle.  

Another assignment I had was to do was TDD (Test Driven Development).  I had to read all of the chapters twice to understand it.  Once I reached the Chapter 9 exercise, I didn't have any trouble implementing model tests, but I had a hard time with testing user authentication.  I read some of the chapters again (for the third time!) and then I read the Q&A and eventually understood most of it. I still didn't think I was able to figure it out without reading the Q&A forum.  Yay for our Q&A forum!

I started Flixter, the third project, which is a Udemy clone app .  For self-directed exercise, I still had to consult the Nomster project instructions a lot.  I tried to guess what I was supposed to do next, for example, I mumbled myself saying, “ok... now I need to create show.html.erb here..” or “I should check rake routes and see what the name of the path...” but I still wasn't comfortable doing anything without looking at the instructions.  I reached Chapter 16 but then I remembered I also needed to implement some TDD code while I was doing this project.  That means I needed to read the TDD instructions again.  

During the first meeting, my mentor suggested that I should attend a programming club or Meetup meeting and check it out.  Taking his advice, I attended a local coding Meetup this week.  The Meetup I attended was called “Women who code” and it just so happened that there were two meetings this week.  The first meeting I attended was kind of a “get together and chat” type of meeting and it had a very relaxed atmosphere.  Everybody seemed very nice.  I was intimidated by going to this sort of gathering, but then I found that everybody had a different background and I realized that I wasted my time worrying about it.  I actually wished I attended a meeting like this earlier.  One of the ladies I met was about my age and she also went through a programming boot camp and successfully switched her career, and now she is working as a full-stack web developer.  She was super nice and gave me lots of advice, and told me to ask anything if I have any questions.  The second meeting was a project-based meeting.  They were using Python to try to pull and analyze data from an international databank, and it looked very interesting.  Since it was a two-hour meeting, all I was able to do was a set-up and I only understood the gist of the project.  I hope to start contributing to the project soon.  